---
title: "Patient Safety and Quality Course into the Nursing Curriculum: An
  Assessment of Student Gains"
permalink: /resources-and-tools/tools-and-resources/gkpsfilea20/
date: 2023-12-11
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Incorporating a Patient Safety and Quality Course Into the Nursing Curriculum: An Assessment of Student Gains</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Shared by </p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Country</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mapped to Strategic Objectives 5 &amp; 6- Strategies 5.1, 5.2, 5.5 &amp; 6.4</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><a href="https://www.aku.edu/mcpk/patient-safety/Pages/home.aspx" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Center for Patient Safety, Aga Khan University</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pakistan</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>Training nursing students on quality and patient safety (PS) is crucial to ensuring safe healthcare practices given the key role nurses play on the healthcare team. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of quality and PS course on the knowledge, and system thinking of students at different stages of the undergraduate nursing course.</p><p>Of the total of 20 points, the course significantly improved students’ knowledge by a mean of 4.91 points for second-year students (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.32–5.51) and 3.46 points for fourth-year students (95% CI, 2.90–4.02) between pretest and posttest. For systems thinking, the Systems Thinking Scale scores increased by 0.41 points (95%CI, 0.29–0.52) for second-year students and 0.33 points (95%CI, 0.22–0.44) for fourth-year students out of the total of 5 points. The self-assessment scores significantly increased on post-course assessment for second (P &lt; 0.05) and fourth-year students (P &lt;0.001). Positive experience reported by students in the narrative reflections complemented these results.</p><p>There was a significant increase in nursing students' knowledge, self-efficacy, and system thinking after participating in this short PS course. Replication at a national level may improve safety knowledge and skills among nursing students with subsequent gains in the safety of healthcare delivery in Pakistan.</p>