---
title: "Patient Safety and Quality into the Medical School Curriculum: An
  Assessment of Student Gains"
permalink: /resources-and-tools/tools-and-resources/gkpsfilea19/
date: 2023-12-11
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Incorporating Patient Safety and Quality into the Medical School Curriculum: An Assessment of Student Gains</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Shared by</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Country</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mapped to Strategic Objective 5 &amp; 6- Strategies 5.1, 5.2, 5.5 &amp; 6.4 <a href="/files/gkpsfilea19_patient safety quality into the medical school curriculum an assessment of student gains.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Download GKPSFILEA19</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><a href="https://www.aku.edu/mcpk/patient-safety/Pages/home.aspx" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Center for Patient Safety, Aga Khan University Pakistan</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Pakistan</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>Global efforts are being made to improve health care standards and the quality of care provided. It has been shown through research that the introduction of patient safety (PS) and quality improvement (QI) concepts in the medical curriculum prepares medical students to face future challenges in their professional careers.</p><p>This study aimed to evaluate how a brief course on QI and PS affects the knowledge, efficacy, and system thinking of medical students.</p><p>Comparisons of pretest and posttest scores showed that the course significantly improved students’ knowledge by a mean of 2.92 points (95% confidence interval, 2.30–3.53; P &lt; 0.001) and system thinking by 0.16 points (95% confidence interval, 0.03–0.29; P = 0.018) of the maximum scores of 20 and 5 points, respectively. The students’ self-assessment of PS knowledge also reflected statistically significant increases in all 9 domains (P &lt; 0.001). Students reported positive experiences with this course in their personal reflections.</p><p>The medical students exhibited increases in knowledge, self-efficacy and system thinking after the week-long intervention. The design of the course can be modified as needed and implemented at other institutions in low-and middle-income countries.</p><p>A targeted long-term assessment of knowledge and attitudes is needed to fully evaluate the impact of this course.</p>