---
title: Electronic Inpatient Medication Record (eIMR) System
permalink: /resources-and-tools/tools-and-resources/schgkps2023a017/
date: 2023-09-11
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Electronic Inpatient Medication Record (eIMR) Audit Checklist</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Shared by</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Country</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mapped to GPSAP 2021 - 2030, Strategic Objective 3- Strategy 3.2<br><a href="/files/sch_gkps_2023-a017.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">SCH_GKPS_2023-A017</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><a href="https://www.singhealth.com.sg/SCH" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">SingHealth Community Hospital (SCH)</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Singapore</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>This checklist aims to strengthen the safety of medication management. The 12 audit focus areas on prescription and pharmacy verification are:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>All orders must have a correct start date (e.g. EOD orders, colecalciferol after loading dose, step down dosing regimen)</p></li><li><p>All orders must include the frequency of administration (e.g. Q8h, Q6h, BD, TDS, etc)</p></li><li><p>The route of orders must be clearly indicated (e.g. PO, IV, PR, SC, etc)</p></li><li><p>All orders must include the strength / quantity of the preparation especially for drugs ordered under "Other Medication" (e.g. 2g OM or 2 sachets OM)</p></li><li><p>All changes in drug/dose/frequency must be cancelled and re-ordered as a new entry.</p></li><li><p>The stop-date must not overlap with the start date of the new order for the same drug. Prescriber / pharmacist may future suspend order as needed.</p></li><li><p>All additional 'free text' remarks must be clear and concise. To remove unnecessary / irrelevant remarks as far as possible.</p></li><li><p>Drug administration device types must be included on the order, e.g. inhaler type (MDI, turbuhaler, accuhaler) and insulin type (vial, flexpen, penfill, etc), if applicable.</p></li><li><p>PRN orders : Ensure strength, frequency and indication are stated. (e.g. ketoprofen plaster bd prn for pain)</p></li><li><p>Use as directed' frequency is not recommended (except GTN tablet / spray)</p></li><li><p>Suspended orders : ensure reasons for suspension are stated</p></li><li><p>Future unsuspended orders : ensure correct date of unsuspension with reasons are stated</p></li></ol><p>Actions to be taken or follow up will be monitored.</p>